Now, that we have discussed some of the log and
event sources available in your Cloud environment,
let's look at some methods to identify suspicious activity.
AWS GuardDuty can monitor CloudTrail,
DNS, and VPC flow logs to identify suspicious activity.
A few examples of activity that GuardDuty can identify include SSH, brute-force attempts,
or API calls from IP addresses that are on threat lists or traffic that is
destined for cryptocurrency-related IP addresses
from an EC2 instance in your environment.
Log sources can be sent to SEIM tools for creating security dashboards.
Many commercial tools have out of the box features to look at Cloud native logs,
such as CloudTrail and VPC flow logs and identify anomalous activity.
Example vendor tools include Splunk and sumo logic.
CloudTrail logs can be sent to CloudWatch and
custom alarms can be set up to monitor specific event types.
An example use case for this is for an admin to be notified when a security group is
modified or the root user e-mail is used to login to the AWS account.
Next, we will take a closer look at CloudTrail logs and GuardDuty finding types.